Hi there! My name is Luke Buss, and I am studying to be an Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE) major at Cal Baptist.
Every since I was very young, I've had the strangly clear dream to work in the theme park industry someday.
I've grown up around the theme parks in Southern California all my life, and ever since I can remember I've been fascinated with them on a level much deeper than the average guest.
I could often decern exactly how a complex ride works; how much capacity it has, how many trains it runs, how a mind boggling special effect is done; even back in elementry school.
In my free time as a kid, I would enjoy building a variety of roller coasters and theme park attractions out of simple toys, and these projects grew more and more complex as I approached high school and college.
It wasn't till a few years ago though that I honed in on exactly what division interested me: ride and show programming.
It wasn't as much about the layout of a coaster or the artistic design of a dark ride, but rather the idea that thousands can experience an attraction every day, but the story remains personal to every guest.
Theme park attractions are a perfect harmony of precision engineering and immersive storytelling—machines built for efficiency, yet designed to create unique, personal adventures for every guest.
This revelation is what inspired me to study engineering and robotics, to one day have the opportunity to design and program the cutting edge technology that drives themed entertainment.


My first engineering course was back in middle school, with an industrial tech and STEM program.
Continuing on to high school, we learned the 3d CAD program SolidWorks, which enabled me to obtain my Certified SolidWorks Associate (CSWA) and Professional (CSWP) certifications.
High school was also my first experience with robotics through the VEX Robotics club on campus.
I became president of the club in my senior year, and we developed some very unique robots to compete against other schools in the district.
Because of such a cool experience with robotics in high school, I sought to join the robotics team right away when I got to CBU.
On the very first day of school, I was encouraged to join by Titus Rehard, the president of the team and one of the coolest people I've ever met.
Throughout the year, I have found my place working on the programming team with the robot's control system and hardware integration.
I did extensive research and testing into what the motors can handle before burnout, including writing PID controllers for voltage regulation and motor syncing across the drivetrain motors.
I also wrote a simple user interface using the onboard LCD screen for select operating modes, and have co-implement the control theory and macros behind the driver control.
As we prepare for worlds, I will also be programming a lighting package, and helping to rewrite the control theory behind our autonomous tracking and path splining systems.
I have learned an enormous amount through the robotics team, and I am incredibly thankful that I found such an amazing group of people right away when coming to CBU!

Just recently, I recieved an invite for an incredible opportunity from the engineering Dean, Dr. van Haaster. As a summer internship, he has invited me to help 



